Whiplash: How to Survive Our Faster Future
Joi Ito, Jeff Howe

The technology of film had been created, but not the medium. When we watch these early films, we see pictures that move, but not a movie.
LOCATION: 94

It took thirty years before managers exploited the flexibility electrical engines allowed and organized factories according to work flow, doubling and sometimes even tripling productivity.6
LOCATION: 121

any given period of human development is characterized by a set of commonly held systems of assumptions and beliefs.
LOCATION: 133

The French philosopher Michel Foucault believed that this matrix of beliefs, prejudices, norms, and conventions makes up a set of rules that guide our thinking and, ultimately, the decisions we make. He called it the “episteme,” and believed certain historical periods could be identified by these systems of thought, just as the archaeologist identifies layers of history by the type of pottery in use at that time.9 In his classic work The Structure of Scientific Revolutions, the American philosopher of science Thomas Kuhn called such all-encompassing belief systems “paradigms.”
LOCATION: 140

Our technologies have outpaced our ability, as a society, to understand them. Now we need to catch up.
LOCATION: 156

As Moore’s law demonstrates, technology lopes along according to power laws of one or another magnitude. Our brains—or at least the sum of our brains working together in the welter of institutions, companies, governments, and other forms of collective endeavor—plod along slowly in its wake, struggling to understand just what God, or man, hath wrought.
LOCATION: 218

If you work in cybersecurity or software design, you don’t need a book to discover what it’s like to grapple with an industry in which change itself seems pegged to Moore’s law, doubling then doubling again. It’s a quantitative phenomenon with qualitative implications. When chips get that small, that fast, we get wearable computers. Robots building robots. Computer viruses that can trigger financial panics. Are you ready for brain implants? Wait, don’t answer. Change doesn’t care if you’re ready. Change outpaced humans sometime late in the last century. These are exponential times. And they have given rise to three conditions that define our era.
LOCATION: 262

The quantity, or level, of complexity is influenced by four inputs: heterogeneity, a network, interdependency, and adaptation.
LOCATION: 298

Not knowing is okay. In fact, we’ve entered an age where the admission of ignorance offers strategic advantages over expending resources—subcommittees and think tanks and sales forecasts—toward the increasingly futile goal of forecasting future events.
LOCATION: 320

Elements of emergent democracy were a prominent feature in the 2016 presidential campaign; one could easily sense that neither Bernie Sanders nor Donald Trump “led” their respective movements so much as surfed them, hoping and praying the electorate’s collective id would eventually lead safely back to shore.
LOCATION: 393

Emergence is what happens when a multitude of little things—neurons, bacteria, people—exhibit properties beyond the ability of any individual, simply through the act of making a few basic choices: Left or right? Attack or ignore? Buy or sell?
LOCATION: 406

as Austrian economist Friedrich Hayek observed in a 1945 paper regarded as one of the foundational texts of information theory, markets do something far more valuable: They gather and utilize knowledge which is “widely dispersed among individuals,”
LOCATION: 426

We inscribed this basic misunderstanding into our social organizations—every tribe with its own leader, every company with its own CEO. Only recently have we come to understand the seemingly less plausible explanation that the queen, metaphorically speaking, has no more agency than her lowliest drone.
LOCATION: 467

Emergent systems presume that every individual within that system possesses unique intelligence that would benefit the group. This information is shared when people make choices about what ideas or projects to support, or, crucially, take that information and use it to innovate.
LOCATION: 538

We are now in a phase of emergent democracy that is quite distressing. But witnessing this has given those of us who held such optimism a decade ago even greater resolve to develop both the tools and momentum to fulfill our original dream of the technology advancing democracy in a positive way. As a step in this direction, we have established a new Scalable Cooperation research group at the Media Lab, run by Associate Professor Iyad Rahwan, a Syrian.
LOCATION: 662

Satoshi may have solved many of the technological hurdles facing a digital currency, but there was little he could do to solve human nature. A schism—ostensibly over the size of each block in the blockchain, but also touching on core issues of decentralization and governance—has emerged between two factions within the Bitcoin community, showing one of the downsides to the leaderless organization.
LOCATION: 956

People with a wide range of weak ties therefore have more opportunities to pull resources from their networks. As Malcolm Gladwell has noted, “Our acquaintances—not our friends—are our greatest source of new ideas and information.”
LOCATION: 974